Our text highlights the fact that we are at war with Satan.
War is defined as a state of hostility accompanied by actions to conquer or to destroy those viewed as the enemy.
And the context of our text today, 1 Peter 5.8, talks about the type of enemy we have, a roaring lion seeking to devour someone.
And that expression roaring denotes the howl of a beast and feast hunger and fierce hunger.
So we have a real enemy.
And that's why the words of Jesus are so meaningful for us when he gave the model prayer.
He said that Matthew 6.13, do not bring us into temptation, but deliver, or the footnote, rescue us from the wicked one.
Now, other Bible translations, like the King James Version or the Revised Standard Version, use an expression like deliver us from evil.
Or the contemporary English version says, protect us from evil.
But that doesn't convey the real fierceness of a real enemy. It's more generic.
And so Jesus knew the devil was real and he is a real enemy.
And the devil has no remorse. He's fierce. He has no pity.
He will take a person and with his traps and lures get him to do something bad in Jehovah's eyes.
And then the person is overcome with guilt and then like a fierce enemy, the devil comes along and stomps on him and makes him feel worse because he caved in and sent.
So how do we deal with such a powerful enemy?
Well, in war, there are soldiers.
So let's use an expression that the Apostle Paul used to describe our situation.
Let's open our Bibles, please, to the book of 2nd Timothy, 2nd Timothy chapter 2.
And we're going to read verses 3 and 4 and talk for a few moments about our being soldiers.
2nd Timothy, 2, 3, as I find soldier of Christ Jesus, take your part in suffering adversity.
No man serving as a soldier involves himself in the commercial businesses of life in order to gain the approval of the one who enrolled him as a soldier.
We become soldiers of Christ when we accept Jehovah's arrangements for salvation through Christ Jesus.
And we dedicate our lives to Him unreservedly for our entire life.
We become a soldier.
And like a soldier, we know that it's not going to be easy.
There are going to be hardships and trials.
And yet a fine soldier, his main objective is to stay loyal to his commanding officers and to those who are giving instructions.
And likewise, we know it's not going to be easy, it's not easy.
But we have chosen to become a soldier of Christ.
Now, a soldier, like this loyal one being described, is far different from a mercenary.
A mercenary is one who hires himself out to fight.
But he may not have any devotion really to the cause. He's a hired man.
And he's doing it for the reward only or for something else that he may gain.
But we're not mercenaries.
We're those with godly devotion, holy devoted to Jehovah and loyal to Christ so that we can be fine soldiers, loyal and true.
Now, another aspect of soldiers are that they are identified by their distinctive uniforms or their particular fighting equipment.
And that's why it helps to identify who's the friend and who's the foe and middle of the battle.
Their appearance makes that possible.
Well, today there is a clear difference isn't there between the soldiers of Satan and the soldiers of Christ.
There's great enmity.
But there's a sharp contrast in appearance, in attitude, in disposition, in motivation, in conduct.
And that's why when we think about that, we think about the contrast between the works of the flesh described in Galatians chapter 5.
And those who have the fruit of God's spirit.
There is such a strong distinction between one serving God and one not serving him.
And that's why too we think about the type of armor we bear.
Ephesians chapter 6 says, put on the complete suit of armor from God.
So our very armor is from God.
We do not use the tactics and the methods of the devil, but we are clearly identified as a soldier of Christ.
And there can be no great area here.
We're either on one side or the other, correct?
For example, suppose that you're a soldier and you're on guard duty and it's evening and you see someone approaching and you cry out,
halt, who goes there, friend or foe, and you hear back, I'm both.
There's an enemy.
You can't be on both sides.
Now what is another aspect of being a good soldier in this fight?
Let's open our Bibles to Philippians chapter 1.
Philippians chapter 1.
And we get to the concept of unity and working closely together in peace because an army needs to be unified.
Philippians chapter 1 verse 27 says,
only behave in a manner worthy of the good news about the Christ so that whether I come and see you or I am absent,
I may hear about you and learn that you're standing firm in one spirit with one soul and the footnote are with one accord,
striving side by side for the faith of the good news.
And in no way, being frightened by your opponents, this very thing is a proof of destruction for them,
but a salvation for you, and this is from God.
Well, we have this matter of unity, don't we?
Shoulder to shoulder side by side.
And yet, one of the tactics of the devil is to get us divided
and disjointed and fighting among ourselves.
To turn the enemy on itself is a very effective war strategy.
Even Jehovah used that.
Remember against his enemies?
In 2 Chronicles chapter 20 verses 20 through 23,
there was the attack of Ammon Moab in the mountainous region of Seer against Judah.
And what did Jehovah do?
He confused them, they struck down each other, they to help destroy one another.
And the devil, in a very sinister way, uses that same approach.
How?
Well, if we can get us to not get along with each other and turn on one another, then that's a very effective tactic.
In fact, we remember the expression in Ephesians chapter 4 verses 26 and 27 about getting along,
be wrathful, but do not sin, do not let the sun set while you're still angry,
do not give the devil an opportunity.
So when he sees discord and disunity, he can really amplify that.
So we have to remember who are our real enemies.
Now, our brothers may disappoint us, they may frustrate us, they may hurt us at times,
do their imperfections, but they're not the enemy.
The devil and his hordes, those are the enemies.
So we don't get to fighting with the wrong person, we keep in mind our brothers or with us.
And in this connection, we just read in that scripture in Philippians that talked about not being afraid.
And do you remember something about being afraid when it related to a soldier in Israel's army?
Deuteronomy chapter 20 verse 8 says,
the officers should also ask the people who is fearful and faint-hearted.
He should return to his house so that he may not cause his brothers to lose heart as he has.
Well, we do have an effect on each other.
Can you imagine being in Joshua's army getting ready to battle into your left as a soldier?
And as you're about ready to leave for battle, he says to you, we're going to die.
We're not going to come back, say goodbye to your family, this is it.
Or he may say, I'm not sure Joshua has Jehovah's backing like Moses did.
All of that would be terrible.
And so anyone in that category was to go home because they do have an effect on others.
How grateful though we are that we have positive courageous brothers who trust in Jehovah.
Examples in the Bible, but also modern day examples just like our brothers in Russia.
Well, as soldiers in this battle, we're not ignorant of Satan's designs.
And yet he studies us very carefully and he knows our weaknesses.
The September 1st, 1988 watchtower had an article stand firm against Satan's machinations.
And in that it said, the devil knows what our weaknesses are.
But do we?
If we don't identify them and then correct them, we will be defenseless at times.
But it takes honesty and humility and an earnest desire to address that which is bad.
Otherwise, we become a victim.
So we need to ask, what are my weaknesses?
Do I identify them? Do I work with them?
And yet would Jehovah's help?
We can come off victorious in this battle.
1 Peter 510 says that Jehovah will finish our training.
He will make us firm. He will make us strong.
So would Jehovah's help? We can succeed.
So maybe all continue as fine soldiers of Christ trusting in Jehovah and when the battle against the enemy, the devil.